Download Link: https://assignmentchef.com/product/solved-cs8803-module2
<br>
In this assignment, you’ll begin the process of exploring relationships in data. You’ll accomplish this task by computing some basic statistical measures on one of three datasets. This is a good time to learn or reboot your Python coding skills.

<strong>Step 1</strong> – <em>Select one of the datasets for completion of this assignment</em>:

<ul>

 <li>[mental-health-in-tech-survey.csv] Mental Health in Tech Survey: Survey on Mental Health in the Tech Workplace in 2014 – <u>https://osmihelp.org/research/</u></li>

</ul>

Dependent Variables:

<ul>

 <li><em>treatment:</em> Have you sought treatment for a mental health condition? (Yes/No) o <em>mental_health_consequence:</em> Do you think that discussing a mental health issue with your employer would have negative consequences? (Yes/Maybe/No)</li>

 <li><em>phys_health_consequence:</em> Do you think that discussing a physical health issue with your employer would have negative consequences? (Yes/Maybe/No)</li>

 <li>[diabetic_data.csv] Diabetes 130 US hospitals for years 1999-2008: Diabetes – readmission – <u>https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Diabetes+130-US+hospitals+for+years+1999-2008</u></li>

</ul>

Dependent Variables:

<ul>

 <li><em>time_in_hospital</em>: a numeric value representing number of days between admission and discharge</li>

 <li><em>readmitted:</em> Days to inpatient readmission – “&lt;30” if the patient was readmitted in less than 30 days, “&gt;30” if the patient was readmitted in more than 30 days, and “No” for no record of readmission.</li>

 <li>[compas-scores-two-years.csv] COMPAS Recidivism Racial Bias: Racial Bias in inmate COMPAS reoffense risk scores for Florida (ProPublica) – <u>https://github.com/propublica/compasanalysis</u></li>

</ul>

Dependent Variables: o <em>decile_score</em>: a numeric value between 1 and 10 corresponding to the recidivism risk score generated by COMPAS software (a small number corresponds to a low risk, a larger number corresponds to a high risk).

<ul>

 <li><em>two_year_recid</em>: a numeric indicator of whether the defendant recidivated two years after previous charge (0: no, did not recidivate, 1: yes, did recidivate)</li>

</ul>




<strong>Step 2</strong> – <em>Explore the data by answering the following questions:</em>

<ul>

 <li>Which dataset did you select?</li>

 <li>How many observations are in the dataset?</li>

 <li>How many variables in the dataset?</li>

 <li>Does this dataset seem to belong to a regulated domain in law as discussed in the lectures? If yes, which one?</li>

 <li>How many variables in the dataset are associated with a legally recognized protected class? In a table format, list those variables associated with a protected class, identify the protected class and the associated legal precedence/law as discussed in the lectures.</li>

</ul>

<em>Example Output (associated with a different dataset) – </em>Dataset: Housing Decisions in Metro-Atlanta

Number of Observations: 1,400

Number of Variables: 16

Regulated Domain in Law: Housing (Fair Housing Act)

Number of Protected Class Variables: 2

<table width="547">

 <tbody>

  <tr>

   <td width="184"> </td>

   <td width="156">Protected Class</td>

   <td width="208">Law</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="184">nationality</td>

   <td width="156">National origin</td>

   <td width="208">Civil Rights Act of 1964, 1991</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="184">pregnant (y/n)</td>

   <td width="156">Pregnancy</td>

   <td width="208">Pregnancy Discrimination Act</td>

  </tr>

 </tbody>

</table>







<strong>Step 3 – </strong><em>Determine the relationships between dependent and independent variables</em>

The frequency of a value represents the number of times a value occurs in a data set. Compute the frequency of each value associated with each dependent variable (listed in Step 1) as a function of all of the protected class variables (independent variables) identified in Step 2. Create histogram(s) comparing the frequency values of the dependent variable as a function of the independent variable. Hint: For variables that are continuous, you might consider creating intervals that represent the data. For categorical/ordinal/nominal values, you might consider converting to numerical values.




<em>Example Output for One Dependent-Independent Variable Combination:   </em>

<table width="346">

 <tbody>

  <tr>

   <td width="174">Independent Variable –Protected Class Variable</td>

   <td width="172">Dependent Variable –Housing Decision (Y/N)</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="174">Pregnant – Y</td>

   <td width="172">Frequency of Y: 50 Frequency of N: 120</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="174">Pregnant – N</td>

   <td width="172">Frequency of Y: 130 Frequency of N: 20</td>

  </tr>

 </tbody>

</table>







<strong>Step 4</strong> – <em>Show how to manipulate with data</em>

Select one protected class variable (independent variable) and one dependent variable. 1) Create a graph to support the “fairness” hypothesis: The system is fair. There is no difference in the outcomes. 2) Create a graph to support the bias hypothesis: The system is biased. There is a difference in the outcomes. For each, provide a brief description of your manipulations.




<em>Example Output: </em>




<ul>

 <li>Fair Hypothesis: As seen from this graph, housing decisions are not dependent on the pregnancy status of women. [Manipulations: Used line graph; Increased Scale to +-50; Mapped the ratio of positive Y decisions (i.e. 50/180 versus 130/180); No label on the Y-Axis].</li>

</ul>

<strong>Difference   in                     Housing           Decisions         Based              on                    Pregnancy</strong>




<ul>

 <li>Bias Hypothesis: As seen from this graph, housing decisions are significantly dependent on the pregnancy status of women. [This hypothesis was easily supported with the data so didn’t require much in manipulations: Used stacked bar graph; Reduced Scale; Reworded labels].</li>

</ul>













<strong>Step 5:</strong> Given your selected protected class variable (independent variable), calculate the average (mean, median, and mode) values of the protected class group (Hint: Variables might need to be converted to numerical values as needed). Run the random sampling method using 50% of the data to create a reduced dataset. Calculate the average (mean, median, and mode) values of the protected class group. Indicate if there is a difference (or not) between the original dataset and the reduced dataset for any of the averages.  Provide all results.




<table width="498">

 <tbody>

  <tr>

   <td width="161">Protected Class Variable (Pregnant)</td>

   <td width="103">Mean</td>

   <td width="119">Median</td>

   <td width="115">Mode</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="161">Original Data Set</td>

   <td width="103">0 (NO)</td>

   <td width="119">0 (NO)</td>

   <td width="115">0 (NO)</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="161">Reduced Data Set</td>

   <td width="103">0 (NO)</td>

   <td width="119">1 (YES)</td>

   <td width="115">0 (NO)</td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

   <td width="161">Difference</td>

   <td width="103">No Difference</td>

   <td width="119">Difference</td>

   <td width="115">No Difference</td>

  </tr>

 </tbody>

</table>




<strong>Step 6:</strong> Given your reduced dataset from Step 5, <strong><em>Repeat Step 3</em></strong> (frequency and histogram) using your selected independent variable as a function of your selected dependent variable (<em>from Step 4</em>).  Explain any differences (in no more than 2 sentences). If you used the random sampling method, would members associated with the protected class variable benefit or be harmed? Explain your reasoning (in no more than 2 sentences).




<strong>Step 7:</strong> Turn in a report documenting your outputs.


